{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang4105\f0\fs22\par
WORK IN PROGRESS, there are still some ways that are not considered here, feel free to add to it or propose changes as well, feedback is also welcome\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\qc Methodology of Resurrection\par
a Study by\par
Arkram Mester, Natural Philosopher\par
for the \par
Royal Library of Theraen\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Death was once perceived as the ultimate frontier whence there is no return.\par
\par
It still retains that honor amongst the common populace, but those willing to see deeper can find out many weird and wondrous things.\par
\par
Sometimes, it seems, gods themselves have a mind to the matters of the common world, sometimes it is against the will of gods that an individual return to terrible unlife from an early grave. Whatever the result, in every case one's death is only the first step.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
I -- Phoenix\par
\par
We do not know if the Phoenix is a god, deity, or just a very, very powerful magical creature. What we do know is it's wondrous ability to persist living even after death. Thus, it is no wonder a religious following has formed.\par
\par
I have heard tell of people being resurrected at the altars to this being. I once spoke to a Phoenix priest about it, and he told me what he knew. Apparently they believe the Phoenix chooses to return life to those it deems to have unfulfilled destinies ahead of them. Many times has an old priest been brought to the altar to no avail, having outlived their purpose on this fair realm, but sometimes the corpse of an unlucky adventurer has merely brushed the altar to spring back to life, all their wounds healed and health restored.\par
\par
Altars to Phoenix are not common, however, and the tendency of it's followers to dwell in the most unreachable and inhospitable places to imitate their deity has led to these altars being abandoned in dark and inhospitable places. A few of them have sprung up in major cities, but they never advertise their presence for obvious reasons.\par
\par
The Phoenix itself apparently resides on the unreachable eastern tops of the Frostbites -- or so I was told.\par
\par
INGAME: Altars of Phoenix could be a rare, cost-free form of resurrection in the absence of crystals\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
II -- Journeys into the Netherworld\par
\par
I have been told of Kalevalan heroes who have been brought back from the Netherworld, as they say of the afterlife or the dwelling of the dead. Almost always it has involved an arduous journey across the River Nether which flows therein, and even then one must know the name of the one they are seeking, and play strange verses only known to the most powerful sorcerers.\par
\par
Undoubtedly, the Netherworld is not hospitable to the living either.\par
\par
However, there is little additional information to be known here -- the Kalevalan tradition is an oral one, and I mainly worked with literary sources and a few accounts of alleged sorcerers. Suffice to say, it is not common for anyone to return from the dead in their northern land.\par
\par
INGAME: Perhaps an adventure in the Netherworld to recruit an ancient champion or just seek knowledge?\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
III -- Necromancy and their ilk\par
\par
This is a hideous tradition only practiced among the vilest of peoples. Nevertheless, the results are beyond question and must be addressed here.\par
\par
Necromancy is not terribly uncommon. It is mostly practised by renegade sorcerers who need thralls to do their worldly bidding, mostly gathering wealth or building towers or whatever it is that renegade magi tend to do with their time. It involves forcefully returning life, and sometimes even consciousness, to the body at the expense of all sanctity and sometimes condition of the body. I say sometimes -- I have seen a man I knew had died the day before appear before me as if his throat was never slit to the bone at all. I could see the crudely mended scar on his throat, though. That was a close one, and not a story for this treatise. I never learned who had resurrected him, or waht was his intention.\par
\par
However, merely animating a corpse cannot be counted as a method of resurrection. A guard skeleton is little more than a golem, destined to fulfill it's duty till the end of the world if need be.\par
\par
When the soul, or consciousness (I do not intend to enter philosophical debate about human nature here) is returned, the resulting form of undead is far more dangerous.\par
\par
That cursed soul will forever be indebted to some dark god according to their nefarious law, and will keep persisting until little of their body remains. Such poor individuals either face a lifetime, nay, almost an eternity of outlawry and servitude, forced to vile deeds, or are locked away in the deepest prisons of the Northern Realms. I have been to one, in our fair nation of Theraen. It is a necessity, but not a pleasing one, and I am not surprised these prisons are deep and well hidden.\par
\par
Sometimes, it is said, the will of a champion is so strong that they continue on the path of light even after a forceful resurrection, if only to serve their destiny to the end and be locked away like the rest of their kind. I find this fate a sad one, but unfortunately every undead will lose their mind eventually. It is better for this to happen in a cold dark cell than a busy market square.\par
\par
INGAME: Undead enemies, obviously. Also the possibility to turn a dead champion into an intelligent undead\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
IV -- The mummification ritual of Nubius (name based on Anubis, changeable)\par
\par
This might belong to the part about necromancy, but since it is such an integral part of the desert religion, I decided to treat it in it's own chapter.\par
\par
As you may know the [insert egyptlike nation here], has a very elaborate system of gods and deities. One of them is the god of death and the underworld, Nubius.\par
\par
His other traits aside, he is the master embalmer, who taught that art to the ancient southerners who passed it on. In those dry tombs there lay recognisable corpses, some thousands of years old. Magically preserved, some say that if the royal line was ever to find it's end, an ancient king could rise to rule again and ensure the continuation of the divine bloodline. It was not uncommon to bury his personal guard with him either.\par
\par
The cobra god/goddess (based on many egyptian snake gods and goddesses) of the southern people is especially notable in the mummification myth, since it is said it both protects the graves of the ancient kings, and can also with it's bite return them to life when needed. Needless to say, such beings are thankfully rarely observed.\par
\par
INGAME: MUMMIES! Need I say more? Also, maybe a champion could even be mummified...\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
V -- The crystals\par
\par
Little is known about the mysterious crystal formations that seem to possess healing powers. In Theraen, there are but few pieces of these crystals, and even they can heal only the most minor of injuries. It is believed that when worn, they ward off disease. For that reason, the king of Theraen has a very rare necklace fashioned of this wondrous crystal.\par
\par
Some Alchymists believe that the crystal is, in fact, the near-mythical "lapis philosophorum", a source of eternal life. I find that hard to believe when observing the dull fragments I once saw in the Deep Archives.\par
\par
I know the source of the crystal fragments is recorded somewhere in the Deep Archives as well, but asking about it from the Magister, I only got a very hostile recommendation to forget about it. Thus this part of this study is a woefully short one.\par
\par
INGAME: Self explanatory.\par
\par
WORK IN PROGRESS, there are still some ways that are not considered here, feel free to add to it or propose changes as well\par
}
 